From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 77.
Recorded live Thursday, August 27th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by teller RD. Control the
federal comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Richard Campbell.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And you
know, I talked to Richard Campbell
last week and it was
just too much darn fun.
And we kept talking after,
after we recorded. So who
knows? Maybe it's a regular
thing. Maybe it's not, you
know, I'll talk to Richard
as long as he'll talk
to me. So it's, it's
back. He's back. It's Richard,
you started with, you started
it. That's not me. Where
were we? I think it
was in Wisconsin where we
ended up doing that whole
discussion about our horror stories
of dealing with scaling websites.
Oh yeah. That's when it
starts with a startup, we
were, we were sitting in
wasn't Wisconsin. I think it
was a queer sitting in
the corner of a conference
though, somewhere and said, Oh,
that's a good idea. Let's
restart recording. Is it Wisconsin,
Ohio? Yeah, it was somewhere
in the Midwest, somewhere in
the Midwest. Yeah. So I
tried to call you a
minute ago and you succeeded
in calling me. Well, I
did call you we're talking
now, but I couldn't find
your cell. So I dialed
what I thought was your
cell. You did an ad
by cell automatically when I'm
in my office. Cause I
shut my cell off because
it interferes with the, with
audio stuff. It automatically forwards
to the office number. Okay.
So then the office phone
says, hi, you've reached the
Campbell residence. Please say the
name of who you want
to talk to. I'm like,
well I just wouldn't. I
couldn't. I called and I
do. I call that, I
call a house. This is
his family, you know? So
I just said Richard, and
then it said calling Richard Campbell,
and then I got you.
Right? That's hardcore. That's your
freaking house. Well, for starters,
no phone actually rang until
you said Richard and it
went to my phone. So
no. Okay. Well where, what
rang? I mean something, my,
the point is that when
you just call me until
you say my name, no
phone rang anywhere in the
house. The nice thing is
that is when you're staying
at my place, for example,
Scott, you can have your
kids call the house and
just say guests and it'll
go ring only in the
guestroom. Wow. So it just,
and it totally does in
the telemarketer because they don't
know who they're calling. Right?
Because you didn't, this was
what was interesting. I waited,
I waited for the list.
That's right there. The reason
I never got a list,
I turned the list for
exactly that reason. Okay. That
is this Google voice or
what is happening. This product
is made by Microsoft and
it's called, it's called some
point response point. I'm going
to Google that with bang
right now. Yeah. Well then
you can go to microsoft.com/response
point. There's a whole site
there. Okay. It came out
a couple of years ago.
There's three different hardware manufacturers
making stuff for this company
called SIS pine, small business,
small business phone system. That's
right. Buy online. So I
picked up a cyst pine
system, which was the base
unit with four phone lines
going into it and six
handsets for about 1200 bucks.
Okay. Oh, they have a
Costco. There you go. Alright.
This is, this is insane.
I've never heard of this.
Oh wow. Look at that
void fist system with four
phones is like a box
powered by Microsoft response point.
And there's a whole thing,
man. Eight different analog phone
lines, 50th extensions. But plus
it also supports all the
sip lines. So if you
want to bring in, you
know, VoIP lines, that's fine.
It works with that. Just
fine. But also stuff like
you can set up an
audit. Well, I've got to
configure with auto attendant or
you can have it go
to a particular phone line
in the auto attendant mode.
You can ask questions, like,
what is your fax number?
What are your hours and
so forth? And you can
prerecord responses to all those
things. So it's very clever
for an inexpensive phone system
is a cyst pine six
pack. Yeah. The, the reason
I put it into the
house was I got teenage
daughters. So I don't want
to take their messages. I
want to just forward it
to their phone. So don't
want to hear the phone
ring. Don't want to hear
the phone ringing less it's
for me, there's a blue
button on all these phones.
When you push that, say
I'm, we're on a call.
And you know, I pick
up the call and it's
for one of my daughters,
I pushed the blue button,
say transfer to daughter and
it takes the call over
there. Well, Intercom system through
the whole house. So you
can hit a button and
say inner calm to the
phone you want to go
to and just sends you
there. That's insane. It's it's
amazing little product. It just
stand by it. And nobody
seems to know about your
phone system. Like how does
that work? There's the thing.
There's the box and all
the software, right? How do
you use Vonage or who's
doing the phony part? So
I have analog lines from
the local telco. Who is
that? I think one of
my sons has picked up
the phone. Yup. Hold on
one second. I'm gonna put
the phone down. This will
be an edit point. No
problem, Mommy. Please. Can you
tell mommy to keep me
busy off the phone? That
was awesome. We got to
leave that in. Hi. So
speaking of phone systems, what
did it have prevented that
Yes, actually, because it's a
PBX, so there's no way
to pick up a line
PBX. It's like I had
a dial nine for an
outside line. Did the whole
concept of being able to
pick up an existing phone
line is foreign, right? Oh,
it's like an interest. So
PBX is an internal phone
system, right? Phones. Isn't that
doesn't yet it doesn't leave
the house and let you,
unless you let it leave
the house. Yeah. Private exchange.
Right? That's the whole idea.
So if I want somebody
else to be able to
listen to this call, I
would have to press the
conference line and tell it
what phone, the phone I
wanted to pull into the
call. And then we'd both
be on that kind of
thing. What's the difference between
response point asterix or putting
it that open source PBX
thing? There's really not A
lot of difference between the
two they're more or less
the same thing. The only
thing with asterix being open
source is that you got
to pick a vendor. You
know, there's lots of different
products or trying to assemble
it yourself. And I really
looked hard at, I was
very close to buying an
asterick system before I found
response point very, very close,
because I wanted those kinds
of features. I wanted to
my email, to my voice
mail to go directly to
email. I wanted all that
Intercom stuff. I wanted all
those things and, and Astros
off for the whole thing.
But you largely have to
build it yourself. And this
was in a box, set
it up, had it running
in an hour. It's got
a windows interface. You know,
I dial the phone now
by literally selecting from a
list of my numbers from
outlook and saying, dial that
number and off it goes,
wow, Well this isn't the
topic that I thought we
were gonna talk about at
all. No, no. It's only
happening because you phoned me,
right? Yeah. Yeah. That was
cool. I'm never going to
phone you again. You've scared
me away from your crazy
phone madness. So that's, that's
pretty cool. Well, gosh, I
don't know if my 18
month old David requires a
PBX at the house here,
but I know where to
get one now. Oh yeah.
Costco. Apparently. Yeah. That's pretty
slick. Cool. So gosh, it
throw me for a loop.
I told totally. Hey, I've
got a, a buddy of
mine loaned me his Kindle
DX. I've got a Kindle.
That's the big one, right?
Oh yeah. I've got this.
It's just, it's massive. Yeah.
It's huge. Bigger than your
head. And that's a big
thing to say, dude is
nothing bigger than my head.
I've got a Kindle myself
and I love it. Love
it. Love it. Love it.
Love it. Love it. I
cannot say enough. Nice things
about, and I apologize to
people who live internationally like
me, that, that you do
not have the Kendall. Yeah.
You'd have to hold the,
hold it up and pointed
towards the U S yeah.
Well I've seriously considered it
Kindle the X. Cause it
just had the USB interface.
So I should be able
to load books and stuff
that way. Cause I obviously
am outside of Sprint's coverage
from here. Right. And you
can also email stuff directly
to the Kindle. So my
each, each Kindle has its
own email address, which I
think is very cool. It's
deeply cool. So if you
have a PDF or a
word document or whatever, you
can just forward it. And
with the Kindle DX, it's
got native PDF support. But
The only way for me
to be able to email
it is to be on
that three G network. Cause
that's how it gets its
name. No. Yeah, you're right.
You're right. That's yeah. If
it had wifi, I just
need wifi, but you didn't
have Sony just announced a
new reader. That's got wifi
in it. Really? Yeah. I'm
pretty sure. Oh the Sony
reader. I dunno. I just
did the Sony. I had
the, I had the original,
original Sony reader back in
the day and I ended
up sending it back. It
was just, it wasn't, it
wasn't right. It wasn't set
up to read. It was
set up to be a
cool star Trek pad, but
it was not, I did
not find it that useful.
I too have one of
the original readers and I
still have mine because I
could make it work outside
of the U S Yeah.
Do you think wireless is
really necessary? You know what?
I'm wrong? Sony does not
have wifi in it, but
there's another one plan called
plastic. That has a, Yeah.
What's that called? Real, real
plastic touch. Plastic Logic. Yeah.
Something like that. Yeah. Well
the new ones, the new
Sony is a touch, so
no wireless, but you can
touch it. Yeah. But it
does have the three G
network and they've got this
deal with the libraries, right?
Like the New York library signed
up. So you get this
sort of DRM book for
three weeks. Right. Which is
interesting. I mean, you really
started to see a picture
of where this is going
to go where we're, we're
making these first stumbling steps,
but you know, give it
a little more time and
we're going to have this
device. I really think this
is going to be one
device is PDA type device.
That is my phone. That
is my reader. That is,
you know, all of those
things in one. Well, do
you think that they're, they're
an iPad is coming from
Apple. Absolutely. And you think
that it's going to be
something that is a, is
it going to be a
big iPhone or is it
going to be a, a
color touchy Kendall Or I
think it's going to be
a big iPhone. Do you
think it's just a big
swollen iPhone? Well, the big
six, seven inch Screen type
iPhone thinner. Yeah. Yeah. Whether
it should be an eye
touch. Our iPhone is a
good question, but I think
they're, they've got the touch
thing down. They figured how
to make the screen bigger.
And they're trying to sort
of cross that line into
the tablet space. Apple's always
had Apple, never got over
the Newton, you know? No.
Well, I mean, I haven't
cut it with a Newton.
I'm looking at a Newton
right now. It's sitting on
my account on my, my
little Ikea shelves behind me
here. Yeah. Battery is fully
discharged on it too, right?
No, actually it's funny. You
mentioned that the great thing
about the Newton was that
the AAA batteries would last
for two weeks. So I
just have to visit my
Newton every, you know, twice
a month and keep it
kind of keep it going.
And I've got a, I've
got some massive, massive memory
expansion. I've got the four
megabyte card there, megabyte piece
megabyte card, which is nice.
And the two megabyte expansion
card. So because the Newton
2000 had two slots, that
was such a great device.
So far ahead of its
time. Even if the battery
life it was glorious, it
would last for weeks and
weeks and weeks it's sip
the battery. So you're saying
that I get all the,
all the benefits of the
iPhone and all the benefits
of the iPhone is battery
life. So do I have
to have a tether to
plug this thing into the
mains? No. As long as
it's plugged into the wall,
it'll be work just fine.
Yeah. That's going to be
a giant remote control. You
are. You're going to need
the I backpack. I think
I've done that. Have you
seen those pictures of me?
Actually, I have a picture
of me at PDC with
a laptop tethered to an
iPhone talking on it because
it's the only thing that
would get the iPhone past
the noon Mark, that that's
like all technology on the
planet right now is focused
on getting iPhones to last
beyond noon for, for their
battery. There's a, I've been
looking at some of the
military gear they've been playing
with now that uses physical
motion to, to charge batteries.
And they've got one in
the 150 watt range. Now
that fits into a backpack.
So as you walk with
your backpack on, it would
be charging batteries. That's cool.
You know, it didn't, they
promise to do this with
our shoes. I mean, I
think it's kind of ironic
that you can get the
Nike shoe. I, you know,
iPod thing. Yeah. But they
couldn't just throw a little
a rattle in there to,
to make some power while
I'm running to my power
song. Yeah. They, they are
still figuring that stuff out.
That power is becoming the
problem more and more and
more. It is the, how
do we package up power
in a good package. Right.
And, and also in a
way that isn't completely toxic
to the environment. My son
has this Thomas, the tank
engine, right along train, like
a little mini three-year-old size
train. And it uses this
beast of a lead acid
battery. That, I mean, when
I'm plugging it, it's like
this, this, this disgusting, you
know, ecological nightmare in a
box that makes me feel
I've made me feel like
I'm changing the, the battery
on like an old Dodge
charger. And then I put
the little plastic Thomas seat
on it and then suddenly
like, I've hidden it. It's
just, it's just such a
CLA the whole Thomas train
is really just a metaphor
for, for everything that we're
doing right now. Everything that's
wrong in this world. Right.
And I have to tell
my son, you know, don't
open the seat, don't open
the seat, you know, battery
acid leaking out of Thomas.
And it's just, it's a
horrible, horrible thing. And of
course the runtime on the
battery is like 12 minutes.
Right. And then I was
just over at a Goodwill.
Recently, you guys have Goodwill
and Canadian. Yeah. We have
a version of that. Yes.
Okay. So go to, I
was at Goodwill, which is
the local a second hand
shop. And don't you love
it when you find something
that just shouldn't be at
Goodwill. What's the story here?
How did this get and
get here? Why, why, why
did it come to me?
I found a Dyson, the
Dyson vacuum cleaner, the Dyson
handheld vac brand new in
the box got Goodwill and
Goodwill. Some corporation didn't want
a freaking awesome vacuum, cleaner,
maybe battery life. And the
vacuum is actually kept. It's
got, I don't know whether
it's an expectations things, but
somehow Dyson put a timer
on it. It'll run for
six minutes. Nice. Which is
funny because my wife says
she can make it about
three quarters of the way
up the stairs, and then
it stops. And then now
she's mad at the she's
like, this is a useless,
useless device. It has a
weak battery. And I think
what the guy did cause
you know, Dyson is obsessed
with, with sucking. I mean,
with suction, he has, I
think I'm, I'm putting words
in his mouth that he's,
he's basically controlling expectations of
power and suction by capping
the amount of time. It'll
never just fade away. Yeah.
No, he needs to be
full power and it shuts
off at the moment. It's
not full power. Okay. Exactly.
Yeah. That would be interesting
if laptops and phones did
that. Sorry, I can't give
you an awesome experience. So
no one will have it.
They don't hate lead acid
batteries like you do, because
I know they're fully recyclable
the chemicals in them, the
led everything can be regenerated
and do a new battery.
I have to go find
the place. Yeah. But at
least you can recycle it.
Many of these alkaline batteries
and stuff, they're much tougher
to recycle really? Yeah. The
technology for recycling lead acid.
I know it's not a
pretty battery. And if you
put it in the garbage,
you're committing a serious evil,
but I'm telling you virtually
everything in the lead acid
battery can be recycled. Oh,
That's good. So I just
need to find my local
recycling place. That's right. Which
really you need to be
doing with all your batteries.
Batteries need a separate place.
I have a garbage, a
plastic garbage can full of
bad. No, I just call
your house and say battery
recycling center. And I'll be
transferred to that. Well, there
is therein lies, the real
problem, which is the recycling
centers. There's only one, it's
a total pain in the
ass to get to. So
I literally have two or
three years worth of batteries
piling up in this bin.
And I don't even want
to know what's growing at
the bottom of that camp.
Nice. Well now you know
what you need to do
today? Take my batteries in
for recycling. Let me see.
I can hear the public
service announcement music now playing
here on the handsome and
the show pop out, you
know, the more, you know.
Yeah. So I got really
bent up the other day,
looking at how far behind
windows mobile had gotten with
6.5 and thinking about wind
seven. And it suddenly hit
me that I don't know
if it's even relevant anymore
Mobile operating systems at all.
Yeah. I don't think you
need Mo because I'm looking
at the next, the next
two generations of PDA hardware
coming out have got the
horsepower of an average desktop.
So at least, yeah. I
mean it doesn't the average
windows mobile device got like
600 megahertz iPhone, 600 megahertz.
Well, and now an arm
announced they're going to start
making multi-core processors for PDAs.
Wow. So, you know, we're
just not that far away
from having four gigs of
Ram and two or four
cores in our PDA, what
do I need a mobile
OSTP for? I can run
windows. Yeah. I mean, if
I love to have tiny
windows seven. Yeah. But cool.
And plus a cradle, just
plug it into a regular
screen and keyboard and off
you go. Yeah. So he
suddenly you get this idea
of I'm no longer a
USB key around with my
essential documents. I'm just carrying
my machine. Okay. You think
it's going to happen? You
think they were secretly working
on some tiny windows, seven
thing. I don't know that.
I think anybody's particularly planning
it, but I think it's
utterly inevitable. I'm now I'm,
you know, I've got my
portable server rig, right? The
bag with the little servers
in it. I mean, those
are dual core. There's a
new board out now. Same
form factor. It's a six
inch by six inch board.
That'll run quad core and
16 gigs of Ram. Hmm.
So tell me how this
can't happen. We have what
I think we're struggling so
much with these different variations
of OSS and platforms and
things. It's just easier to
make the horsepower come to
the machine. Right? Like remember
that, who is the one
that came up? The guy
who came up with the
line that said it was
easier to put internet everywhere
that it wasn't make a
good disconnected client. And I
think the same thing is
happening where it's easy rather
than trying to make a
mobile OSTP it's efficient and
all those sorts of things.
We're just going to bring
the horsepower everywhere. I don't
know. But the, but again,
the power, Well, power consumption
is always going to be
a challenge, but that's still
in the hands of the
hardware guys. Arm is winning
these days, you know, beating
out everybody else's processors because
while they're giving us multi-course
and all these cool things,
they're consuming power really efficiently.
Hey everybody, this is Scott
coming at you from another
place in time. No doubt.
You probably bumped into testing
tasks now, and then, and
your work and, you know,
writing functional tests is probably
not your favorite thing. It's
kind of difficult takes time
and the results can be
dubious. Well, I'll get ready
to start liking tests. Thanks
to Tellerik with the, the
new web testing framework. Building
web automation test is a
breeze. You've got code automation
with advanced asp.net, Ajax and
server light applications. You can
write a single test, have
it executed against multiple browsers
at once. You'd benefit from
a rich API there's link
support integration with visual studio,
unit testing, also end unit
X unit and NBA unit,
not to mention the free
rappers for Telerik rad controls
for ESPN, that Ajax and
several light, all shipping with
Telerik's new testing tool. One
of the best features, the
webinar testing framework, which is
developed by art of test
is it's absolutely free. Freddie
got hooked on web testing
framework, start using it right
away, go to tellerik.com for
more info. Thanks a lot.
Why doesn't the iPhone and
devices like it automatically shut
things on and off the
joke about the iPhone is
that it's a great phone
and it'll last for a
long time, as long as
it's off. Yeah. Or you
have to shut everything off
and they haven't even in
the latest version, come up
with a nice single dashboard.
There's like 22 clicks to
get things shut off. Yeah.
I think that developers treat
power consumption. Like they treat
security. That's somebody else's problem.
I'll do it later. Whatever,
because when they're working on
it, it's plugged in. It's
true. It's true. There's actually
a lot of documentation on
how to write a good
Microsoft application. That is a
smart power consumer. Yup. It
can shut off pieces of
itself. You can turn off
background threads. And you know,
I think that the only
app that really does that
is his outlook about that.
That knows that you're on
battery and thinks about what
it can do to make
the battery life last longer
And be less aggressive. But
heck you know, this is
the big claim to fame
of the Mac book, right?
Is you close the screen,
you open the screen, you
still have a computer. I
defy you to find virtually
any windows laptop that works
correctly on Well, I would,
I would actually push back
and say that anyone not
running windows seven. Cause that's
the, that's when I finally
can call. I mean, seriously,
that's a, that's a really
great example of the amount
of confidence. One can have
in an iOS is that
if I can close it
and not like do that,
you know, is the light
in the refrigerator off yeah.
Thing. Then, then that's a
sense of confidence. I totally
closed my Lenovo happily winning
windows seven, without any concern
at all for, you know,
what's going on, it will
shut off. It will shut
off correctly and I will
be able to turn it
back on and it will
work just fine. So my
problem is I'm carrying a
motion computing, Ellie, 1700 slate
tablet, and there is no
carrying that thing around. I
am the battery life on.
It's absolutely Epic. I can't
resist the thing. It's just
it's wonderful. But I did
that. It was going into
shut down. I was in
I'm still that Vista or
no, I put wind seminar
C on it. I went
into a shutdown cycle. It's
a shutting down. So I
stuffed in my bag and
I pulled it out on
the airplane two hours later
and it was still shutting
down and the battery and
I'm like, Oh, well I
guess I don't have quite
as much battery. And it
was just a bit tiny
toasty being stuffed in the
bag while it was still
shutting down. Yeah. You know,
I've heard things about laptops
waking up for midnight bits
of work or backups or
whatever, you know, midnight defrag
and then bursting into flame
inside of a pack, a
backpack. I never had a
machine burst into flame yet
since like the Apple two
plus I burned up a
floppy drive by plugging the
thing in wrong. That's not
good at all. Just a
long time ago. Yeah. Okay.
Hey, I'm one of the
things that you, you wanted
to talk about and you
sent me a note about
was the idea of some
of the big shows, the
big conferences and stuff are
dying. You know, the downturn
impacted conferences across the board
where everybody took a hit.
Right, right. And it's not
easy. I don't envy anybody
in the conference business. And
goodness knows we go to
lots of conferences, but you
and I were together in
DC and in Norway, that
was what, a scream of
a conference. Just a great
story. Amazing. I mean, they
held the conference inside a
soccer stadium cause it was
too big to be anywhere
else. And even now they're
still struggling to keep the
torrents up so people can
download the, the video of
the talks. And this has
been what now? Four months.
Yeah. Huge demands. So I
just got back about a
couple of weeks back now.
I spent a weekend in
Nashville at a conference called
DevLINK guy, runs it as
volunteers. Name's John Keller, a totally
user group centric kind of
show 700 people there. And
it had that buzz of
a really happening excited conference.
People sitting in the hallways,
chatting with each other, there
was an open spaces section
that was really busy. I
did a couple of talks
that were full. It just,
Carl was there with me.
We did, we did@covid.net, rockstar,
closing with a panel discussion
and all that sort of
thing. Nice. It felt like
the big tier one shows
of old and When you
could have 15,000 people and
have that same feeling. Yeah.
But now you're saying it
was a big show, 700,
700 people who paid a
hundred dollars a piece to
be there. Why, what was
the formula? Was it a
hundred dollars? Was it the
right 700 people? What made
it awesome? I think, I
think you have a local
draw. So there was really
a sense that everybody knew
everybody. Like I was sort
of the forerunner there, there
it's, but people drove it's
the Midwest. Right? So people
drive a fair distance. They're
willing to, there's lots of
folks in from Ohio and
from Michigan coming all the
way down to Tennessee. I
think that's part of it
was, it had a serious
community feel and it was
on a, it was on
a university campus. So there
was, and there was a
great hub of activity around
coming and going from there.
But I think that you're
growing the right people that
are really excited to be
there. And really the expectations
are set. Well, I I've
been reading another, I read
a book called the paradox
of choice. Have you heard
of this book? I have
heard of the book. It's
I think it's in my
queue. My Amazon queue, absolute
wonder I'm reading free right
now, which is that book
about freemiums interesting. One of
the things that paradox choice
really gets into is this
whole idea that your expectation
significantly affects your actual experience
and the scenario they sort
of paint is suppose you're
going to one of the
best restaurants in town and
your friends have told you
it's the best meal you've
ever had in your life.
And you've had a really
great day and on and
on and on. So it's
almost, or you feel sorry
for the chef, cause there's
almost no way he could
meet your expectations. Even, even
if we knock it out
of the park and does
everything perfectly, it's only going
to meet your expectations, never
going to exceed where it's
true. You walk into a
restaurant after a terrible day
with no idea what the
place is like. And the
guide is treats you nice
and see it serves you
something half decent and you're
happy. And I, I wonder
if the tier one shows
got so big and so
expensive and so extravagant, we
could never make our expectations
anymore. Well, plus there's the,
the fog of war aspect
of things in the sense
of, I remember that the
conferences were like this. Yeah.
I don't know if they
were, you know, I remember
15,000 people descending on Orlando
and everyone being awesome. And
the parties being amazing and
counting crows was hired and
they, they, they, they did,
they did the, the show
a party. But I did,
I remember it Correctly. It
was actually that was it
actually that good. You know,
how long do we wait?
Cause you sort of edit
out the, how long do
we wait for food we
could get in. But I
think your point is really,
is there an interesting people
it's actually made me think
of, I always get teased
when I go overseas that
even though I will try
crazy food, I always eat,
try to eat subway or
some chain before a talk.
Right, right. I'm not going
to go if I'm in
Sweden, I'm not going to
go try Swedish food for
the very first time, two
hours before I speak, it's
just a bad idea. So
people are like, Oh my
goodness, you went to Morocco
and you found a subway.
What are you doing? You
know, subway sandwiches. Yeah. But
it's, but it's my expectation,
which is that subway is
subway pretty much everywhere in
the world. And that was
in Toronto and I went
to subway and that was
fantastic. Yeah. And I was
predictable opulence, you know what
I mean? It was exactly
what I needed. But at
the time, and I had
my expectations set appropriately and
I had my subway sandwich
and it was comfort food.
I had my expectation been
set in any other up
or down, or if I
had no expectation at all,
the psychic weight of the
stress, it would have put
on me would have made
my talk a lesser talk.
Yeah. And I think one
of the things we're seeing
with these lightweight low cost
shows is when you are
only in for a hundred
bucks, even if you get
a decent lunch, you're probably
pretty happy. And if you
get a couple of good
sessions and granted they can't
pay the speakers. So this
gets back to that whole,
you remember your video with
Ted about the death of
the speaker, The death of
the professional speaker. That's a
video up on channel nine.msdn.com
that Tim, Tim, Ted Neward
right. Lamented the death of
the professional speaker. But when
people's expectations are such that
I didn't have a huge
commitment here when I don't
get a great talk. I'm
like, ah, you know, you
get, that's fine. Where I
think one of the concerns
you see this, I certainly
see this online is folks
are saying, Hey, I spent
$3,000 to go to this
top tier show flew all
this way. Expensive hotel room
did dah, dah, dah, dah,
and the talk still socked.
Hmm. So they, I think
one of the reasons that
these little shows are doing
so well is expectations are
reasonable and they're getting sufficient
results for them. Well, does
that mean it's over for
the big, the big conferences?
I mean, is it all
about, you know, COVID mash
and these smaller regional conferences
now? Well, what You asked
me about the regional conferences,
I don't feel like they're
sustainable because there's no profit
motive there. Those guys aren't
making any money on doing
it. The love of it,
but love runs down my
friend. They also find out
it's really Down. Yeah. That
sounds like a country music
song. What does that mean
Down? Eventually, you're going to
get this very hard work
to put on a show
like that. Like if you
could go to one of
these conferences, you've got to
Pat those guys on the
back, but after a couple
of three, four years of
doing this, they're going to
be tired and, and wondering
why they're still doing it.
And people do get critical
of these shows. It looks
very hard to do so
to me it feels like
they're not sustainable that eventually
these things will unravel unless
they migrate a model that
is more, less individually centric.
Right? I mean, obviously John Keller
was the center of DevLINK.
You got guys like bill
Wagner and Diane Marsh. And it's
a bunch of folks that
work on code mash and
every show has got that
coupled one, two, three key
people. When those people move
on, they, they ready to
do something else. Can that
show sustain itself? And, and
that's my concern is that
we may see this wave
come in of this style
of show that then collapses
under the weight of its
dependence on volunteerism to function.
Yeah. Well, that's one of
the things that I think
people can do when they
say, what do I do
to get involved in community?
You know, the, there is
often a personality or an
individual or a group of
individuals, a brain trust that
keeps these things running. Whether
they be your local dotnet
users' group or your local
nerd dinner, or your local
a regional conference. And if
you don't, if you don't
step up as a member
of the community and help
out those things will just
fade away. Absolutely Fred, whatever
Fred Fredrickson will decide, you
know, I'm tired. I've been
doing this for five years.
Let's, let's hand it over
to the community and then
it just falls falling away.
It comes apart well. And
I wonder if we're not
just in a cycle that,
that the big shows got
a little too expensive and
too opulent. And if they
lighten up a little and
get a little less expensive
and get a little less
Austin tasteless, as the cycle
comes around of these essentially
volunteer shows spinning down. Again,
those people go, Hey, let's
put on a big show.
I'm willing to spend a
thousand dollars to get involved
in something like that. We'll
see a resurgence of that,
but you know, there's another
route. And I started, I've
had this experience in Europe
where folks turn a user
group into almost a more
formal organization. The dues go
up, there's a paid employee
that operates that, that group.
And they do a conference
every year. And again, it's
not necessarily, it's still a
sort of a, it's a
not-for-profit. They spend all the
money they bring in, but
there are people paid to
operate it so that it's
sustainable longterm and not dependent
on an individual or a
few individual volunteers to keep
it running. And it becomes
a much more formal, not
for profit organization. Hmm. I
wonder if Microsoft should Microsoft
start doing mixed West and
mixed East and tech ed
Southwest? I, you know, it's
an interesting question is the
real question you've got to
ask is should Microsoft be
in the conference business at
all? No, that's a very
good question. But if, if
they, if they're not, then
they have to count on
the, the, the, the local
conferences, the regional conferences to,
to exist Well, and you
know, you look at a
conference like DevLINK, and DevLINK
had some sponsorship and I
don't necessarily know who all
of them were, but they
re there were vendors out
there who want to reach
that audience that were willing
to contribute some money to
make the conference function. Why
shouldn't Microsoft just be another
vendor in this scenario? Hmm.
That's a good question. Yeah.
Support the small shows and
you can support them in
so many ways. You do
have the community connection and
you can provide some financial
support as well as organizational
Support. I will. I'll take
that feedback to them. Very
nice. Thank you. Carol says,
no, I think you've got
a good point. I think
that that smaller community run
sustainable conferences might energize people
more than the, I mean,
I think that there should
be probably one big con
Well, and again, you get
back to, what is the
motivation here? Yeah. I remember
hearing tech ed described to
me as the opportunity for
Microsoft employees to get close
to their customers. And to
me, that's a good idea
for Microsoft. And it's a
good idea for the customers.
I don't know that it
actually works, Works that way.
No, it doesn't work that
way at all. But yeah,
That to me seems like
a good idea. And I
also don't have a plan.
So hang on, though, you're
saying that that, that someone
described to you that the
tech ed was Microsoft's opportunity
to get close to the
customer. We should be getting
close to our customers well,
all the time. And certainly
not just the ones that
can afford to fly somewhere
and pay two grand to
do it. I mean, I
don't disagree with you there
that you always need to
be conduct your customers, but
it's sort of marquee event
that is the big, you
know, big opportunity, you know,
the, that every, you know,
all these folks inside of
Microsoft that normally don't get
outside, get to get out
there. And you have these
presentations, you know, to me,
when I go to a
tech ed and admittedly, I
presented tech ed, you presented
tech ed. So we've got
our own biases anyway. But
when I go to a
session, I go to a
session of a guy who
is inside of Microsoft, who
built that technology. And it's
going to tell you why
it works the way it
works. You won't get that
information anywhere else. And that
to me is valuable, right,
without a doubt. But what
I worry about when Microsoft
puts on conferences is that
it's suppressive of the community
based concept conference, that it
overrides that conference because they
do have more money to
spend and they are larger
and they quote are Microsoft,
especially when those things tend
not to be sustainable. Often
Microsoft gets into these ideas
and, you know, the local
sub gets this idea of
doing this particular tour, doing
these particular kinds of events.
And that only goes on.
As long as that guy
is there, eventually he gets
his promotion or moves on
to a different job and
so forth. And it falls
apart. But in the two,
three years that he did
his thing, the domestic stuff,
the local stuff can't survive.
You know, it gets stepped
on it. So suddenly we're
left with nothing. And that
very frustrating to me that
we get into those circumstances.
Right. And everybody loses in
the end. Yeah. What we
really want is that sort
of consistent opportunity. I like
the idea that I can
get together with my peers
on a routine basis, in
a venue where we have
a deep insight into the
different lines of products that
we care about. And I
can talk to my peers
about what's going on and
where we're going with it.
I think you're onto something
I'm trying to be, but,
you know, can we call
it? We can make it
happen. We can call it
Campbell con Oh God. Yeah.
You know, I want to,
I have a lot of
respect for people who organize
conferences. I've worked with them
enough, know that it's really
hard. I've done tons of
content planning over the years.
I mean, in the, in
dotnet rocks is really a
content planning exercise more than
anything else. Totally. And, but
I would never want to
be that guy to be
honest. Oh, well, yeah. I
mean, just, it didn't a
known decks, right? That's Chris
Portillo's thing. Yeah. Just, just
happened last weekend. And you
know, and every once in
a while, when I'm kind
of, you know, sitting on
my couch, rubbing my fat
belly, watching TV, I think
to myself, why don't I
have a con Okay. I
don't chance let's make Hansel
con and then I realized
that that Chris Prolo has
boundless energy and organizational skills,
neither of which I possess.
So then, then, Oh, look,
TV's on. So yeah. So
the conference never actually happens.
Yeah. Dancing with the stars
came on and the whole
thing went away. So you
got to get people respect
if they have that, that
kind of energy to pull
something together. Absolutely. He's a
very special talent and, and
it's, it's fun to be
a contributor to stuff like
that. But yeah, I never
had an urge to own
it myself To own. It
involves a special kind of
insanity On a level of
maturity and reliability that I
have a tough time with.
I'm glad that you, you
agree. I'm I'm South. Actually.
You have no, you have
no business having a car
I've been totally with you.
I've certainly learned to embrace
my character defects for the
forces of good. Excellent. Excellent.
Oh, it's so fun to
talk to you, Richard, Where
you want to go next
to my friend. Where do
I want to go next?
I I'm just learning how
to be a boss right
now. Oh yeah. Tell me
about this because I, that
was a heck of an
announcement. And then, and now
you're trying to fill these
to these roles. I mean,
congratulations for first and foremost,
I don't know if it's
that big of a deal.
The difference is that, you
know, before, when I led
teams, it was more being,
being in charge of people
implicitly. Right. So it's like,
you know, I'm running a
team of, of three to
10 or whatever, but I
wasn't doing their, their HR
stuff. Right. So there's the
administrivia of being a boss.
Then there's the leadership part.
You know, leadership is an
ongoing learning process and that's
just something that you, that
you, that you do, the
part I'm having trouble with
is the administrivia, it's just,
it's the HR stuff and
the expense reports and all
that kinda crap. Someone should
outsource that. There's gotta be
a way to have somebody
else do that. It's just
a better way to go
about that stuff. You don't
get that until you're really,
really bossy boss, right. When
you're like a VP of
something, right. Then suddenly, you
know, other than what do
you call it? The yearly
reviews, you don't have to,
you know, you have to
provide leadership and do one-on-ones,
but I don't want to
fill out a forms for
expenses and stuff like that.
You know, if you've guys
spent five bucks on a
subway sandwich, you know, more
power to you. Yeah. But
isn't it your job just
to simply sign off that.
Yeah. That's a, that's a
legitimate business. Okay. Yes. But
even that is boring to
me. I mean, it's just,
it's just like, you know,
those, the add those things
up, right. You get four
or five guys working for
you. And then when I
hire these other guys, I'll
have like seven and it's
gonna mean half an hour,
a week where I got
to go through the, you
know, click, click, click approve,
approve. I just, I find
that tedious, not value added
time. Right. Cause remember, I'm
a guy that really tries
to keep track of what
I'm doing and is it
valuable? And is it, is
it time well spent? Interesting
problem. Isn't the hiring part
of this, one of the
hardest Difficult. So that's funny
that you mentioned that I
think I've blogged like nine
or 10 times this, this
week. And it's, it's not
this week rather, excuse me
this month. And it's really
stressing me out because I'm
not doing what I want
to be doing because I'm
so busy trying to hire
somebody. Right. I mean, I've
got hundreds of resumes to
sift through and I've got
some people who are supporting
me in, in HR, but
they, they, they said they
gave me a thing to
fill out that says, you
know, give me the list
of keywords so that I
can screen these resumes for
you. Ouch. It's like, yeah.
Right. And that's, you know,
the kinds of community jobs
that I am hiring for
it. This is not the
way we're going to do
this. This, the person for
this job is not going
to be found by looking
for keywords. Yeah. No, these
are, yeah. This is a
community thing. It's a very
personal kind of, Yeah. So
I got to go through
it. I ask myself, so
I've been spending all this
time doing this and not
time, not the time I
want to be spending working
on what I want to
be working on, which is
ironically exactly what, what, what
Chris cells said was going
to happen when he said
yes, you know, it's over
for you and all productivity
in that, in the past.
Yeah. Actually doing anyway. Well,
I remember that was back
earlier in the month there
that, that Hansel minutes on
nine just said, yeah, your,
your, your job now is
to make everybody else productive.
Don't worry. You're not going
to have any productive activity
yourself. Yeah. I, I, I'm
still in denial. I refuse
to know. I just assume
that's not, I have no
interest in being a manager.
I would like to, I
want to be a role.
I don't, I would like
to be an a and
an enabler. I want to
be an empower and empowerer
is that a word? Yeah.
And those are the things
that I'm interested in doing.
So the idea of taking
the role is so empower
these other guys that doesn't
mean I want to stop
doing the stuff that I
think I'm pretty decent at
doing. So the fi the
trick is to find a
balance. Fortunately, these are senior
guys. It's not like I'm
babysitting here. You know, I
looked at your line full
of senior guys, so that's
not a huge deal. It's
just the administrivia, it's just
the, now I have a
regular weekly one-on-one with different
people, and I've got to
fill out some forms and
that's tedious. Plus when you're
a team, they want to
know there's all sorts of
monthly status reporting to other
bosses higher up. And again,
it all adds up to
a couple of hours of
administrivia the problem with that
is that it can add
up to a day if
you're not paying attention. Right.
And I just, I can't
accept a, a day of,
of admin work. Well, yeah.
I used to measure my
productivity in interruptions per hour,
recognizing that the higher, that
number was the less productive
I was Interruptions per hour.
Yeah. I, well, I found
that software development worked best
at an interruption per hour
rate of 0.2, five, or
lower. So that means an
interruption every four hours. That's
no more, any more than
that in my productivity is
developer. Susan essentially goes down
and I got so frustrated
with dealing with this in
an office that I used
to hang my interruption per
hour, number on the wall,
outside my office. And each
time you phoned me, it
added to another interruption. It
started when I had a
boss who, who had asked
me to do a task
that I say, that's going
to take me two hours
and then phone me every
15 minutes on it. So
I started adding 15 minutes
to the time, each time
he called, he says, yeah,
I'll have that done by
two o'clock. Did he call
back at, at, at, at
1130 and say, how's that
coming? He says, I'll have
it done at two 30.
You said two o'clock you
phoned again. And if you
phone again, it'll be three
interruptions. And, but my point
really being that as a
manager, you suddenly interruptions become
a key part of your
day that you had started
have to commit to interruption
heavy days and in exchange
for, with any luck, getting
a low interruption day, Too.
That would be that's nice.
Is it about controlling the
people who could potentially interrupt
you or is it about
just hiding? I think there's
a hiding element to it.
I think there's not. There's
a effort to go into
your office and eliminate interruptions,
like turning off email and
setting D and D on
the phone, like those kinds
of things, so that it's
not easy to interrupt you.
Right? My whole point about
hanging that sign of my
interruption rate was to make
people stop and think, do
I want to interrupt him?
See, that's interesting. Last time.
What was I talking about
this? I think it was
a show recently. I was
talking about getting an, a
big on air sign, like
an old style radio on
air sign. Yes. And a
bunch of people said, you
can get them on eBay.
I've seen by building one.
I don't want to spend
too much money, but the
boys, as they interrupted earlier
on the show here, tend
to kind of launch themselves
at the door. You know,
nothing is scarier. If you
have any kind of zombie
issues about, you know, two
toddlers throwing their shoulder into
the door, I sit, they're
not, they're not looking for
brains, daddy. Hey dad. Hey.
So I'm thinking that a
blinking light that says on
air, right? We'll, we'll clearly
get the children Not go
because that's really what it
Says anyway, isn't it? You
know, do I really want
a blinking sign that says
go away, flashing over my
door? Maybe I do. Actually.
I was just thinking in
the whole zombie scenario thing,
the good news is you
could aim a shotgun at
the mid door. So if
it is a zombie, you'll
get him in the head.
But if it's a toddler,
it's going to go below
him anyway. But the explosion
is going to be enough
to probably make them think,
should I really hit that
door again? Wow. I think
that we should stop the
talk now, because that was
perfect. That was the perfect
ending. Bothered at work. Got
a home office, try a
shotgun just higher than a
toddler's head. There you go.
Wire that up to your
phone system. You know, you'll
very likely to be prototyping
this later. Good day. Yes.
Just push the blue button
and say, reduce my interruptions
per hour. Shotguns deploy automatically,
probably over the head of
the children. There you go.
All right. Well, Richard, thank
you so much for hanging
out. Always a pleasure, sir.
We'll do it again sometime.
Alright. Well, this has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.